So also changing that same manifest file.
You can express to the OS
that you are a CSV reader or
you are a PDF reader or a recipe reader.
Let's say that we invented our own recipe
format for our app, .recipe and
you can say, hey OS, when there is
a file in the operating system,
.recipe I can open that file.
So you express that as
a metadata in the manifest, and
then from JavaScript, when you start
your app, there is a launch queue.
In that queue,
you can consume that queue and
you will receive possible files that
the operating system sends you.
It make sense.
So then, when the user is in the Finder,
or in Windows Explorer, or
he's double clicking on our
.recipe file, your PWA will open it.
That's it make sense?
So then you're like any other native app,
yeah.
>> What are like the pros and cons
between using a PWA versus like Electron.
>> So if you're using Electron
on desktop or PhoneGap or
Apache Cordova on mobile,
you have pros and cons, okay.
So the PWA doesn't execute native code.
So you are under
the umbrella of the browser,
of the capabilities that
we have been seeing today.
So that's the pro and
con at the same time.
When you're using Electron,
well first, Electron in particular,
you're shipping your own Chromium browser
with an executable, which means that
your app even if it's a Hello World,
will take 50 megabytes, all right?
So that's a disadvantage.
And also it won't get the browser updates.
So if you don't recompile your app and
the user is not really updating your app,
it will still be using an old engine,
the ancient that you use when you
compile that for the first time.
With the PWA,
also you get automatic updates.
If you change the files on your server, so
if you deploy a new version of your app,
users will get that silently.
You don't need the user to update that or
wait at night when the App Store
is upgrading things.
The con is that if you need a feature or
a capability that we didn't mention today,
you can't do that with a PWA alone.
You need to go to the store, or
you need to create an Electron wrapper.
So, in this case,
we were expressing the ability or
the need to handle a new kind of file.
Also, we can do that with URL protocols.
So this is useful, for example,
you send an e-mail to the user.
Let's say we are doing a front-end master
of PWA, and then I'm sending you an e-mail
with a coupon or a hidden video that only
you can see if you click on that link.
Well, how can we open the PWA?
Because if we click to
frontendmasters.com,
we will open the website,
not the actual PWA.
Well, we can handle our own protocol.
So instead of HTTP, the link can be
something like frontendmasters://, okay?
So in this case, the protocol
handler lets you subscribe to one
of the standard protocols such as mailto,
tel, for a phone call.
If you have ever seen a link
to a phone call, it's tel:.
So you can subscribe to those,
the standard ones, or
if you wanna create your
own customized protocol,
it must have a prefix of web+, okay?
That is just how they set up this.
So in this case,
it must be web+frontendmasters.
And you define the URL pattern that
you wanna load in the engine.
So you can say that,
when there is a URL like that,
you wanna go to a /watch on your
web app for with an argument and
that %s will be replaced by whatever
comes after forward slash, forward slash.
Example, this is how we will look like,
if I wanna link to my Swift course,
I do have a Swift course on iOS on
Frontend Masters.
You can be web+frontendmasters:swift and
that swift argument
will be received by
JavaScript in the path name.
Actually, in the query in the path.
The path will be watch and
the query will be argument=swift.
Does it make sense?
So no matter where in the OS you
have a link to web+frontendmasters,
your PWA will react.
That's protocol handler.
So you can see here
the integration with the OS.
Because now, I'm not talking
just about a website, an app,
a native app, can actually trigger
that link and it can open your PWA.